---
layout: page
title: "Glossary"
category: doc
date: 2016-12-12 12:18:27
order: 3
---

**Apache ZooKeeper:** A management system for distributed systems, used by BBoxDB.

**Bounding Box:** The minimum axis-parallel box that encloses an object.

**BBoxDB Streams:** The stream processing extension of BBoxDB.

**BBoxDB Client:** The client software library that can be used to interact with BBoxDB.

**CLI:** The command line interface of BBoxDB.

**Distribution Group:** All tables of a distribution group are distributed in the same manner.

**Distribution Directory:** This mapping is stored in Zookeeper and determines which node is responsible for which area.

**Distribution Region:** A subspace in an n-dimensional space. 

**Key-Bounding-Box-Value Store (KBVS):** The family name of data storages that store tuples consisting of a *key*, a *bounding box*, and a *value*.

**Memtable:** The in-memory structure that is used by BBoxDB to store data.

**NTP (Network Time Protocol):** A protocol that is used to synchronize clocks in a computer network.

**Space Partitioner:** A algorithm that (dynamically) partitions the space into distribution regions.

**SSTables (String-Sorted-Tables):** The persistent data structure that is used by BBoxDB to store the data.

**Table:** A set of tuples.

**Tuple store:** Stores a set of tuples. The data of one table of one distribution region is stored in a tuple store. The tuple store stores the data in Memtables and in SSTables.

**Tuple store configuration:** The configuration of a tuple store. Among other things, this configuration defines whether the tuple store allows duplicates or not.  

**Used-Defined filter:** A filter that is capable of decoding the stored values and refined the bounding-box based operations of the query processor.